# rnn_lda_model
This is an ensemble model for contextual based political ideologies classification. A rnn-lda model is established in this project to classify the ideology of the political document to either liberal or conservative.

## About the model:
The model is a combination of a lda topic modeling algorithmn and a LSTM based RNN model. The standard natural language preprocessing steps which include tokenization, removing stop words, steming are performed to ensure the quality of input data for the model. After the data preprocessing, the lda topic model is trained to ensure that it can output a vector of topic distribution for any input document. Then The LSTM-based RNN model is trained to output an embedding layer of every input document. These two embeding vectors returned by these two models are concatenated and served as an input to a multi-layer perceptron with two hidden layers. The cost function applied is the Negative-log-likelihood loss. The model applied tensorflow as the framework of the model and Adam optimization as the improving methods. The final accuracy is about 62% which is higher than the 58% accuracy of the baseline model which is a Naive Bayes based model with tf-idf as the vectorization method.

## About the data: 
The data used in this project is the Congressional Speech Data and is available in the above zip file. You can also download the data set from the link: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/llee/data/convote.html. The data set has three parts with each one represents one unique stage that the data is used for the initial project which created this dataset. Since there is only slightly difference between the schema of the data, in this project, only the stage one data is used. The reason for selecting this dataset is that the data set is the textual records of the US congressional debates with the comprehensive information of the speaker of these documents included. Since the political arguments in the debate may always represent the political ideologies of the speakers, it is reasonable to use the party of the speaker as the label of the ducoments to perform supervised learning.

The result of the topic modeling on the corpus and the comparisons of the result from the baseline model and the result from the rnn_lda modl can be found in the paper attached above.
